---
layout: post
title: "My way to du-it.sh"
date: 2022-03-18 10:00:00
categories: automation scripting
tags: du-it docker automation bash scripting
---

The other day was _maintenance day_ for my home lab, which mainly means updating docker containers. This time I decided
to take a different approach and, rather than using [Watchtower]({% post_url /_posts/2021-12-11-watchtower-telegram %}), I opened
my trusted IDE and created a Bash Script.\
The reason why I decided to go for a Bash Script is because I had an issue with an update using Watchtower, which basically wiped
out the container's data (luckily that container was in staging). I am sure the issue **was not** related to Watchtower itself,
but it was a bit annoying going through the setup process again.\
**NOTE:** _Watchtower gives you the option to exclude some containers. Take a look at [this](https://containrrr.dev/watchtower/container-selection/)
for more details._\
I wanted something very simple (always [KISS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle)): while executing the script, I
pass the containers' name as arguments, than the script asks me if I want to _**D**elete_ or _**U**pdate_ them (that's why _DU-it_).

**IMPORTANT:** Keep in mind that this script is based on my lab, where I mainly use _docker-compose_ and every folder is named with the
same name of the container, therefore **it may not work in your environment**.

## Delete

This option stops and removes the container, it also deletes the image used by that container.\
The script will check if the argument provided is a valid match for a container's name and, if it is, it creates a _container_name.tmp_
file which contains the image used by that container; than, stops and remove that container and `cat` out the .tmp file to
know what image needs to be deleted. Once done, all the .tmp files will be deleted.

## Update

This option goes through all the steps of the previous option, but also goes into the container's directory and executes
a `docker-compose up -d` so it will pull down the new and updated image.

As final touch, I gave each option a colour, so I could easily recognise what's going on if I get distracted doing something
else.

I am sure it can be written in a better way, but at the end of the day it works just fine to me. Also, there's always room for future
improvements.\
You can see the script on my GitHub [here](http://github.com/kamahell87/scripts/blob/main/bash/du-it/du-it.sh).
