---
layout: post
title: "Jellyfin, a versatile media server"
date: 2022-02-12 17:50:00
categories: homelab self-hosted
tags: jellyfin homelab self-hosted docker media
---

Are you looking for another homelab project? Well, why don't set up a [media server](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_server)?\
A media server is a nice thing to set up in a homelab, also because it's something that anyone in the house can use.\
There are a ton of options out there, but I decided to go for [Jellyfin](https://jellyfin.org/) simply because it's _versatile_.\
If you would like to see a comparison between different media servers, take a look at [this](https://github.com/Protektor-Desura/Archon/wiki/Compare-Media-Servers) on GitHub.\
I know what you are thinking and the answer is "_yes, we are going to use docker-compose_". Also, we are going to use the Docker image from
[linuxserver.io](https://docs.linuxserver.io/images/docker-jellyfin).\
Without further ado, let's set it up!\
I'm going to set up some shared folders in my NAS (_you don't have to_), so I can have a good amount of space for my media, and then...
```bash
mkdir jellyfin
cd jellyfin
touch docker-compose.yml
nano docker-compose.yml
```
`docker-compose.yml`
```yaml
---
version: "2.1"
services:
  jellyfin:
    image: lscr.io/linuxserver/jellyfin
    container_name: jellyfin
    environment:
      - PUID=1000
      - PGID=1000
      - TZ=Europe/London
    volumes:
      - /path/to/library:/config
      - /path/to/tvseries:/data/tvshows
      - /path/to/movies:/data/movies
    ports:
      - 8096:8096
    restart: unless-stopped
```
After writing, saving and closing the file, execute the usual...
```bash
sudo docker-compose up -d
```
Wait until the container is up and running. Now go to the `ip address:port` where Jellyfin lives and start the final set up.\
Jellyfin has **mobile** and **Smart TV** applications, so you can access it even from your couch or on the go.

## Warning: Don't let the CPU die

Something to consider when setting up a media server is that without a graphics card, the CPU will do all the heavy lifting.
This may not be a good thing on older hardware, and because (_surprise, surprise_) I have old hardware, I decided to buy a graphics card.
Remember, you don't need the latest and greatest hardware, just something to do the job smoothly and leave the CPU in peace.
Just to give you an example, I bought a **GeForce GT610**, and it works amazingly well. So, if you are in the same situation,
do yourself a favor and **_don't let your CPU die_**.
